# Intro to Data Structures
* The basic idea of a data structure is to store data in a way that meets the needs of your particular application.
* The data structure you choose will depend on the data you are working with and what you want to do with it.
* Storing data in one giant array would be rather time consuming to locate a specific value if you had a significant number and depth of items.

* The differences between most data structures typically have to do with trade-offs between how long it takes to first populate the structure, how long it takes to add or find elements and how large the structure is in memory.

* The most common data structures you will encounter in web development are:
  - Arrays
  - Stacks
  - Queues
  - Linked Lists
  - Trees
  - Graphs
  - Hash Tables

### Data Structures Explained
* A more specific definititon of a data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and the function or operations that can be applied to the data. 

### Examples
* **Array**: A collection of elements identified by index or key.
* **Linked List**: A collection of elements where each element points to the next.
* **Record (struct)**: A collection of elements, possibly of different types, identified by a single name.
* **Hash tables/maps**: A collection of key-value pairs where the key is generated by a hash function.
* **Graph**: A collection of nodes with edges between them.
* **Stack**: A _LIFO_ collection of elements with two principle operations: push and pop. LAST IN, FIRST OUT!
  // The last item added is the first to be removed. Think of a stack of plates.
* **Queue**: A _FIFO_ collection of elements with two principle operations: enqueue and dequeue. FIRST IN, FIRST OUT!
  // The first item added is the first to be removed. Think of a line at the grocery store. 
* **Tree**: A collection of nodes with a parent-child relationship.
* **Heap**: A collection of nodes with a parent-child relationship where each parent node is either greater than or equal to (max heap) or less than or equal to (min heap) its child nodes (remember? the Cartesian Tree 🌲!).
* **Trie**: A collection of nodes where each node represents a common prefix of a string.
* **Set**: A collection of unique elements.
* **Map**: A collection of key-value pairs where the key is unique.